# TextClassification
Document classification or document categorization is a problem in Information science, computer science and arts. The task  is to assign a document to at least one or a lot of categories. this could be done "manually" (or "intellectually") or algorithimically, and also the documents to be classified could also be texts, images, music, etc. every quite document possesses its special classification issues. Documents could also be classified consistent with their subjects or consistent with different attributes (such as document kind, author, printing year etc.). This project can specialize in algorithmic strategies, precisely machine learning algorithms that area unit wide employed in IP and computing. There area unit several classification algorithms akin to Naive Bayes, Decision Tree and etc, all of that have their advantages and downsides. There area unit several public text knowledge set on-line for classification, here, I will be able to apply classification algorithms more on notable 20_newsgroup knowledge set from UCI Machine Learning Repository, that features a assortment of twenty thousand messages, collected from twenty completely different web news newsgroups. The news are classified consistent with their contents.
# Problem Statement
The classification of 20_newsgroup dataset is a supervised classification problem, there are news of 20 categories, each piece of news belongs to one category, the goal is to extract proper features and build an effective model to assign each piece of news to the correct category.
# Algorithm Used in this project
This problem has over 20000 training samples with ten categories,a multi-class classification problem with high dimensions.I will try to implement Multinomial Naive Bayes Algo from scratch on this as they work even on Large datasets.They are highly scalable and requires a small amount of training data for classification.
